Hello and welcome.
In this video,
we'll be covering accuracy
metrics for model evaluation.
So let's get started.
Evaluation metrics are used
to explain the
performance of a model.
Let's talk more about
the model evaluation metrics
that are used for regression.
As mentioned, basically,
we can compare
the actual values and predicted
values to calculate the accuracy
of our regression model.
Evaluation metrics
provide a key role in
the development of
a model as it provides insight
to areas that
require improvement.
We'll be reviewing a number
of model evaluation metrics,
including Mean Absolute
Error, Mean Squared Error,
and Root Mean Squared Error,
but before we get
into defining these,
we need to define what
an error actually is.
In the context of regression,
the error of the model is
the difference between
the data points and
the trend line generated
by the algorithm.
Since there are
multiple data points,
an error can be determined
in multiple ways.
Mean Absolute Error is the mean
of the absolute
value of the errors.
This is the easiest of the
metrics to understand,
since it's just
the average error.
Mean Squared Error is the
mean of the squared error.
It's more popular than Mean
Absolute Error because
the focus is geared more
towards large errors.
This is due to the squared term,
exponentially increasing
larger errors
in comparison to smaller ones.
Root Mean Squared Error is
the square root of the
mean squared error.
This is one of the
most popular of
the evaluation metrics because
Root Mean Squared Error
is interpretable in
the same units as the
response vector or Y units,
making it easy to
relate its information.
Relative absolute error,
also known as residual
sum of square,
where Y bar is a mean value of Y,
takes the total absolute
error and normalizes it.
By dividing by the
total absolute error
of the simple predictor.
Relative squared error is very
similar to relative
absolute error,
but is widely adopted by
the data science community as it
is used for
calculating R-squared.
R-squared is not an
error per say but is
a popular metric for the
accuracy of your model.
It represents how
close the data values
are to the fitted
regression line.
The higher the R-squared,
the better the model
fits your data.
Each of these metrics can be used
for quantifying of
your prediction.
The choice of metric
completely depends on the type
of model your data type
and domain of knowledge.
Unfortunately, further
review is out of
scope of this course.
Thanks for watching.